today I'm going to show you how to
extend a handlebar harness for Harley
Davidson we're going to extend the
electrical system going through some of
these curves now the first thing you
have to do is get yourself one of these
kits it's an extension kit will come
with your 12 inch wires with the proper
clips on both ends and they'll come with
your heat shrink now at first you may be
tempted to just cut these wires I was
just taking out these clips it's not
that difficult well before you do that
you need to make sure you take out your
phone or any type of camera and take a
picture of your wire configuration these
are generally either solid or solid with
a colored stripe also make sure you jot
it down on a piece of paper something
like a wiring diagram then you'll notice
that looking at this little clip on both
ends may be a little difficult at first
but this little rubber piece this orange
piece along with this black plastic
piece are housed inside there so once
you free it up you'll be able to loosen
take the black plastic piece off slide
out this rubber protector this is going
to protect from water then these are not
that difficult to pull out once you get
the proper tools I'm just using a small
jeweler screwdriver
make sure it's in all the way and then
the wire will come right out just take a
note of how you took it out I kept them
in the orange housing while I attached
the rest of the extensions so you could
see at this stage I've gone I'm on the
left side the audio side and I've gone
and removed all of
the connectors from the housing the next
step was to go and put the extensions in
and that's what I've done here for this
next step we're going to run a liter
line a little nut tied to it we're going
to run it through the handlebars just
going to feed it through the opening and
let it drop through until it comes out
the bottom end here so you can see we're
done now I fed it through the opening
underneath the handlebar here and we've
come out at the bottom for this next
step I'm going to run my leader line
around the cabling harness cabling and
tape it up and this is what I'm going to
be using to pull through the bars okay
so at this point we have secured the
leader line taped it and we are ready to
feed it through the bars now in order to
get this cabling through the handlebars
I picked up some lithium grease to help
in the process so just apply a little
bit of lithium grease on the tubing and
as you work your way through piece by
piece just keep applying the lithium so
we're going to start at this end we're
going to push a little bit through this
end and as we're pushing on this end
we're going to be pulling out of the
other end and I'll show you what I mean
in just a second and apply a little bit
more of this lithium grease so the idea
here is to pull on the leader cable as I
push the housing through the handlebars
just keep feeding the housing through
the top part as you pull before you know
it you'll be out with thee and what's
really key is taking the photo of the
connector so once you have the new
wiring in you can compare ok this very
next step we're going to throw on our
shield so we cut it to the right size
have enough room to put on the boots
shrink later on the smaller individual
wires going ahead and strip all our
wires we're going to end up soldering
all these together you don't want to
strip away too much what you want to do
I'd say about half inch to 3/8 on both
ends so we're going to do this side and
that's we're going to the harness from
within the bars see them out so the next
step we want to go in and slip our
shrink wrap or heat shrink onto these
ends now just for simplicity and so
these don't slide and fall off I started
it on one side and do four at a time
so just slip your shrink wrap on you
have to twist the ends braided wire so
those you need to cut to make sure that
your shrimp right wrap extends over both
sides you're looking at about 3/4 of an
inch
the next we have yellow now you have to
be careful
because some of these colors are
duplicated but with a stripe so you can
see this is a yellow but this is a
yellow with a black stripe that's why
the documentation and the photos is an
important process so this is key so when
you're attaching your two wires together
want to meet them halfway up so it
should look like that make sure you're
right in the center on both before you
start to twist one side at a time for
you begin to solder so now you want to
grab your soldering iron want to apply
heat to the wire right so what's key is
the wire gets to the right temperature
so when you're actually applying your
solder you apply it right to the wire
and you'll notice that it'll flow once
you have your heat shrink over your
wires your connections make sure to
describe any lighter where heat shrink
and it will shrink make a nice seal
here's what your wiring looks like when
it's all said and done just a matter of
slipping on your last piece of heat
shrink just to cover up that connection